[DOCS-13623] Migrate Install the Worker to cdocs (#35124)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/observability_pipelines/configuration/install_the_worker/_index.mdoc.md

    option_group_id: op_pipelines_setup_method_options
    label: "Pipeline setup method"
    hide_if:
        - platform: ["ecs_fargate"]
  - trait_id: platform
    option_group_id: op_platform_options
    label: "Platform"
  - trait_id: secrets_source
    option_group_id: op_secrets_source_options
    label: "Secrets retrieval method"
---

## Overview

<!-- Linux - Overview -->
{% if equals($platform, "linux") %}

{% alert level="warning" %}
For RHEL and CentOS, the Observability Pipelines Worker supports versions 8.0 or later.
{% /alert %}

{% /if %}

The Observability Pipelines Worker is software that runs in your environment to centrally aggregate and process your logs and metrics ({% glossary-tooltip term="preview" case="title" /%}), and then route them to different destinations.

<!-- Kubernetes - Overview -->
{% if equals($platform, "kubernetes") %}
The Observability Pipelines Worker supports all major Kubernetes distributions, such as:

- Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS)
- Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
- Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)
- Red Hat OpenShift
- Rancher
{% /if %}

<!-- ECS Fargate - Overview -->
{% if equals($platform, "ecs_fargate") %}

> This page describes one way you can set up the Observability Pipelines Worker in ECS Fargate.

Reviewer: Is there another way? 

Also, I noticed that selecting ECS Fargate hides the Pipeline Setup Method filter but not the Secrets Retrieval Method filter, even though it seems there is not split in content depending on the Secrets Retrieval Method.

I'm assuming this is a limitation of dynamic filters but just calling it out to ensure it aligns with your intent/expectations.

Author: DM'd over slack.

```suggestion
This page describes how you can set up the Observability Pipelines Worker in ECS Fargate.
```

- `<PIPELINE_ID>`: The ID of your pipeline.
- `<DATADOG_SITE>`: The [Datadog site][11].
- `<SOURCE_ENV_VARIABLE>`: The environment variables required by the source you are using for your pipeline.
    - For example: `DD_OP_SOURCE_DATADOG_AGENT_ADDRESS=0.0.0.0:8282`
    - See [Environment Variables][7] for a list of source environment variables.
- `<DESTINATION_ENV_VARIABLE>`: The environment variables required by the destinations you are using for your pipeline.
    - For example: `DD_OP_DESTINATION_SPLUNK_HEC_ENDPOINT_URL=https://hec.splunkcloud.com:8088`
    - See [Environment Variables][7] for a list of destination environment variables.

{% /if %}

**Notes**:
- By default, the `docker run` command exposes the same port the Worker is listening on. If you want to map the Worker's container port to a different port on the Docker host, use the `-p | --publish` option in the command:
    ```
    -p 8282:8088 datadog/observability-pipelines-worker run
    ```
- Use the `VECTOR_HOSTNAME` environment variable to assign a unique hostname and help you identify the Worker.
- See [Add domains to firewall allowlist](#add-domains-to-firewall-allowlist) if you are using a firewall.

> See [Update Existing Pipelines][13] if you want to make changes to your pipeline's configuration.

Reviewer: This sequence feels awk to me. Both are "See X" statements but one is part of a series of Notes and one is an orphan. This is in a few places.

{% /if %}

<!-- API/TF - Kubernetes -->
{% if equals($platform, "kubernetes") %}

1. Download the [Helm chart values file][14]. See the [full list of available configuration options][15].

>     - If you are not using a managed service, see [Self-hosted and self-managed Kubernetes clusters](#self-hosted-and-self-managed-kubernetes-clusters) before continuing to the next step.

Reviewer: Removing the bullet since it's just one line. Also matches the formatting of step 2 which has an "If" statement just folded within the step instead of bulleted.

```suggestion
    If you are not using a managed service, see [Self-hosted and self-managed Kubernetes clusters](#self-hosted-and-self-managed-kubernetes-clusters) before continuing to the next step.
```

2. Add the Datadog chart repository to Helm:
    ```shell
    helm repo add datadog https://helm.datadoghq.com
    ```

>     If you already have the Datadog chart repository, run the following command to ensure it is up to date:

Reviewer: Carryover (not new in this PR), but `ensure` should be `make sure` to keep Vale happy. Same fix applies to lines 303, 352, 381, and 419 ("ensure that your secrets are configured...").

```suggestion
    If you already have the Datadog chart repository, run the following command to make sure it is up to date:
```

{% /if %}

**Notes**:
- By default, the `docker run` command exposes the same port the Worker is listening on. If you want to map the Worker's container port to a different port on the Docker host, use the `-p | --publish` option in the command:
    ```
    -p 8282:8088 datadog/observability-pipelines-worker run
    ```
- Use the `VECTOR_HOSTNAME` environment variable to assign a unique hostname and help you identify the Worker.
- See [Add domains to firewall allowlist](#add-domains-to-firewall-allowlist) if you are using a firewall.

See [Update Existing Pipelines][13] if you want to make changes to your pipeline's configuration.
{% /if %}

<!-- UI - Kubernetes -->

{% if equals($platform, "kubernetes") %}

{% partial file="observability_pipelines/install_the_worker/ui-intro.mdoc.md" /%}

1. Select **Kubernetes** as your installation platform.

<!-- UI - Kubernetes - Secrets Management -->
{% if equals($secrets_source, "secrets_management") %}
2. In **Review your secrets management**, ensure that your secrets are configured in your secrets manager.
{% partial file="observability_pipelines/install_the_worker/ui-kubernetes.mdoc.md" /%}

> 6. See [Secrets Management][18] on how to configure your `values.yaml` file for your secrets manager.

Reviewer: Consider rewording to lead with the action:

```suggestion
6. Configure your `values.yaml` file for your secrets manager. See [Secrets Management][18].
```

4. Select the AWS region you want to use to install the Worker.
5. Click **Select API key** to choose the Datadog API key you want to use.
    - **Note**: The API key must be [enabled for Remote Configuration][10].
6. Click **Launch CloudFormation Template** to navigate to the AWS Console to review the stack configuration and then launch it. Make sure the CloudFormation parameters are as expected.
7. Select the VPC and subnet you want to use to install the Worker.
8. Review and check the necessary permissions checkboxes for IAM. Click **Submit** to create the stack. CloudFormation handles the installation at this point; the Worker instances are launched, the necessary software is downloaded, and the Worker starts automatically.
9. Navigate back to the Observability Pipelines installation page and click **Deploy**.

**Note**: See [Add domains to firewall allowlist](#add-domains-to-firewall-allowlist) if you are using a firewall.

See [Update Existing Pipelines][13] if you want to make changes to your pipeline's configuration.

{% /if %}
{% /if %}

<!-- UI, API, Terraform - ECS Fargate -->
{% if equals($platform, "ecs_fargate") %}

### Configuration setup

> The setup configuration for this example consists of a Fargate task, Fargate service, and a load balancer.

Reviewer: This feels slightly awkward to me because we never introduce the fact that we will be using an example, it's just assumed. Maybe even just a tweak to "In the following example, the setup configuration consists of..." would help

Author: ```suggestion
In the following example, the setup configuration consists of a Fargate task, Fargate service, and a load balancer.
```

{% img src="observability_pipelines/worker_fargate_architecture.png" alt="An architecture diagram with logs going to an application load balancer, a OP Worker task, and the Fargate service" style="width:100%;" /%}

> ### Configure the task definition

Reviewer: Carryover, but this section is pretty dense. There are a series of tasks folded into the wall of text and I think some numbered steps could be helpful.

Author: I'll look into this separately.

      "volumesFrom": [],
      "systemControls": []
    }
  ],
  "tags": [
    {
      "key": "PrincipalId",
      "value": "AROAYYB64AB3JW3TEST"
    },
    {
      "key": "User",
      "value": "username@test.com"
    }
  ],
  "executionRoleArn": "arn:aws:iam::60142xxxxxx:role/ecsTaskExecutionRole",
  "networkMode": "awsvpc",
  "volumes": [],
  "placementConstraints": [],
  "requiresCompatibilities": [
    "FARGATE"
  ],
  "cpu": "xxx",
  "memory": "xxx"
}
```

{% /if %}

### Configure the ECS service

[Create an ECS service][21]. The service configuration sets the number of Worker replicas to run and the scaling policy. In this example, the scaling policy is set to target an average CPU utilization of 70% with a minimum of two replicas and a maximum of five replicas.

### Set up load balancing

Depending on your use case, configure either an [Application Load Balancer][22] or a [Network Load Balancer][23] to target the group of Fargate tasks you defined earlier. Configure the health check against the Observability Pipelines' API port that was set in the task definition.

{% /if %}

<!-- UI, API, Terraform - Kubernetes -->
{% if equals($platform, "kubernetes") %}

**Notes**:

> - By default, the Kubernetes Service maps incoming port `<SERVICE_PORT>` to the port the Worker is listening on (`<TARGET_PORT>`). If you want to map the Worker's pod port to a different incoming port of the Kubernetes Service, use the following `service.ports[0].port` and `service.ports[0].targetPort` values in the command:

Reviewer: Defer to you, but I think it might make more sense for users if we fold this bullet up into the "You must replace the placeholders with the following values:" section. You could rephrase that to "Replace the placeholders with the following values:" and then mark the `<SERVICE_PORT>` bullet as optional, e.g.:
```
- `<SERVICE_PORT>` (optional):
```

Author: It was originally there but I moved it for some reason. I'll look into moving it back.

Author: Actually, I have this other [card](https://datadoghq.atlassian.net/browse/DOCS-14303) to update the service port section. So I'm going to leave service port section where it is for now.

    ```
    --set service.ports[0].protocol=TCP,service.ports[0].port=8088,service.ports[0].targetPort=8282
    ```

> - If you enable [disk buffering][16] for destinations, you must enable Kubernetes [persistent volumes][17] in the Observability Pipelines helm chart.

Reviewer: Carryover from the old file, but `helm` should be `Helm` (proper noun). Other lines in this file already get this right.

```suggestion
- If you enable [disk buffering][16] for destinations, you must enable Kubernetes [persistent volumes][17] in the Observability Pipelines Helm chart.
```

### Set the Worker name using the Pod and cluster name

By default, a Worker's hostname is the machine's hostname, such as `COMP-JLXPKWTGJF`. If you run your pipeline across multiple clusters or containers, assign each Worker a unique hostname based on the Pod name and cluster name to make them easier to identify.

In the Helm chart [`values.yaml`][15]:

1. Configure the environment variable `POD_NAME` to be automatically set to the Pod's name.
In the Helm chart:
    ```yaml
    env:
      - name: POD_NAME
        valueFrom:
         fieldRef:
            fieldPath: metadata.name
    ```
1. Set the `CLUSTER_NAME` environment variable in the Helm chart.
    ```
    env:
      - name: CLUSTER_NAME
        value: "<MY_CLUSTER_NAME>"
    ```
1. Set the `VECTOR_HOSTNAME` to the `POD_NAME` and `CLUSTER_NAME`.
    ```yaml
    env:
      - name: POD_NAME
        valueFrom:
          fieldRef:
            fieldPath: metadata.name

      - name: CLUSTER_NAME
        value: "<MY_CLUSTER_NAME>"

      - name: VECTOR_HOSTNAME
        value: "$(CLUSTER_NAME)_$(POD_NAME)"
    ```

> ## Upgrade the Worker

Reviewer: On `platform=docker` and `platform=cloudformation`, the rendered page has no "Upgrade the Worker" section (it only lives inside the K8s and Linux blocks). Same as the old page, but just confirming this is intentional?

Author: I'm looking into getting that info from eng. I'll open a separate card to add the info.

Edit: Added [card](https://datadoghq.atlassian.net/browse/DOCS-14637).

    ```
1. Run the following commands to update your local `apt` repo and install the Worker:
    ```shell
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install observability-pipelines-worker datadog-signing-keys
    ```
<!-- UI, API, Terraform - Linux - Secrets Management -->
{% if equals($secrets_source, "secrets_management") %}

3. Add your Datadog API key, site (for example, `datadoghq.com` for US1), and pipeline ID to the Worker's environment file:
    ```
    sudo cat <<EOF > /etc/default/observability-pipelines-worker
    DD_API_KEY=<DATADOG_API_KEY>
    DD_OP_PIPELINE_ID=<PIPELINE_ID>
    DD_SITE=<DATADOG_SITE>
    EOF
    ```
{% /if %}

<!-- UI, API, Terraform - Linux - Environment variables -->
{% if equals($secrets_source, "environment_variables") %}

3. Add your Datadog API key, site (for example, `datadoghq.com` for US1), and source and destination [environment variables][7] to the Worker's environment file:
    ```
    sudo cat <<EOF > /etc/default/observability-pipelines-worker
    DD_API_KEY=<DATADOG_API_KEY>
    DD_OP_PIPELINE_ID=<PIPELINE_ID>
    DD_SITE=<DATADOG_SITE>
    <SOURCE_ENV_VARIABLES>
    <DESTINATION_ENV_VARIABLES>
    EOF
    ```
{% /if %}

> 4. Start the worker:

Reviewer: Carryover, but `worker` should be capitalized (the Observability Pipelines Worker).

```suggestion
4. Start the Worker:
```

    **Note**: If you are running RHEL 8.1 or CentOS 8.1, use `repo_gpgcheck=0` instead of `repo_gpgcheck=1` in the configuration below.
    ```
    cat <<EOF > /etc/yum.repos.d/datadog-observability-pipelines-worker.repo
    [observability-pipelines-worker]
    name = Observability Pipelines Worker
    baseurl = https://yum.datadoghq.com/stable/observability-pipelines-worker-2/\$basearch/
    enabled=1
    gpgcheck=1
    repo_gpgcheck=1
    gpgkey=https://keys.datadoghq.com/DATADOG_RPM_KEY_CURRENT.public
        https://keys.datadoghq.com/DATADOG_RPM_KEY_B01082D3.public
    EOF
    ```
2. Update your packages and install the Worker:
    ```shell
    sudo yum makecache
    sudo yum install observability-pipelines-worker
    ```

<!-- UI, API, Terraform - Linux - Secrets Management -->
{% if equals($secrets_source, "secrets_management") %}

3. Add your Datadog API key, site (for example, `datadoghq.com` for US1), and pipeline ID to the Worker's environment file:
    ```
    sudo cat <<-EOF > /etc/default/observability-pipelines-worker
    DD_API_KEY=<API_KEY>
    DD_OP_PIPELINE_ID=<PIPELINE_ID>
    DD_SITE=<SITE>
    EOF
    ```

> 4. Start the worker:

Reviewer: Carryover, but `worker` should be capitalized (the Observability Pipelines Worker).

```suggestion
4. Start the Worker:
```

    ```shell
    sudo systemctl restart observability-pipelines-worker
    ```

{% /if %}

<!-- UI, API, Terraform - Linux - Environment variables -->
{% if equals($secrets_source, "environment_variables") %}

3. Add your Datadog API key, site (for example, `datadoghq.com` for US1), and source and destination [environment variables][7] to the Worker's environment file:
    ```shell
    sudo cat <<-EOF > /etc/default/observability-pipelines-worker
    DD_API_KEY=<API_KEY>
    DD_OP_PIPELINE_ID=<PIPELINE_ID>
    DD_SITE=<SITE>
    <SOURCE_ENV_VARIABLES>
    <DESTINATION_ENV_VARIABLES>
    EOF
    ```

> 4. Start the worker:

Reviewer: Carryover, but `worker` should be capitalized (the Observability Pipelines Worker).

```suggestion
4. Start the Worker:
```

    ```shell
    sudo systemctl restart observability-pipelines-worker
    ```

{% /if %}

<!-- UI - Linux RPM -->
{% if equals($interface, "ui") %}

5. Navigate back to the Observability Pipelines installation page and click **Deploy**.

{% partial file="observability_pipelines/install_the_worker/install-script-notes.mdoc.md" /%}

{% /if %}

{% /tab %}
{% /tabs %}

<!-- API/TF - Linux RPM -->
{% if includes($interface, ["api","terraform"]) %}

{% partial file="observability_pipelines/install_the_worker/install-script-notes.mdoc.md" /%}

{% /if %}

See [Update Existing Pipelines][13] if you want to make changes to your pipeline's configuration.

## Upgrade the Worker

To upgrade the Worker to the latest version, run the following command:

{% tabs %}
{% tab label="APT" %}

```
sudo apt-get install --only-upgrade observability-pipelines-worker
```

{% /tab %}
{% tab label="RPM" %}

```
sudo yum install --only-upgrade observability-pipelines-worker
```

{% /tab %}
{% /tabs %}

> ## Uninstall the Worker

Reviewer: Similar Q here as the "Upgrade the Worker" comment -- we don't have this section on all pages. Intentional?

Author: Yep, same situation as "Upgrade the Worker". Waiting on eng for more information and will update separately.

If you want to uninstall the Worker, run the following commands:

{% tabs %}
{% tab label="APT" %}

```
sudo apt-get remove --purge observability-pipelines-worker
```

{% /tab %}
{% tab label="RPM" %}

1.
    ```
    yum remove observability-pipelines-worker
    ```
1.
    ```
    rpm -q --configfiles observability-pipelines-worker
    ```

{% /tab %}
{% /tabs %}

{% /if %}

> ## Add domains to firewall allowlist

Reviewer: This should be updated per the filters, yeah? Like I'm assuming we don't need to show the Linux tab for all platforms -- just Linux... ?

Reviewer: Also want to confirm that this even applies to all platforms since we only have tabs for Docker, K8s, and Linux??

Author: Ah yes, I updated with the filters and got the info for ECS Fargate and CloudFormation. Commit: https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/35124/commits/d2d3ed36ccf73573b2567b2aef77973936bbe4ab
